so New Zealand had called Richard Pearce
an inventive young South Island farmer
had picked them to the post by nine
months as his sister's related well I
can't put an exact date but I think it
was between nineteen three and four I
was going to school them to the low y2e
school riding the pony and effort dawn
my great mates he was on peers and we
got talking away and I said you remember
do you know that my brother Richard flew
yesterday
she said don't be silly this is April
Fool's Day and because she knew he was
making a plane but she thought was only
pulling her leg so that's how it
happened
someone called a mad Pierce they thought
is a bit crazy and but Alice when I
heard he was going to fly quite a number
of them gathered up made this old
shingle erode and remember my brother
Warren was there yeah he was the one
that too
and won't explore and this is the next
thing it started taxing long to load so
that is the end of the first flight but
he went from the yard who couldn't say
how many and so anyway he had to fix up
something before he attempted again that
was only the beginning of things as far
as he was concerned well as I told you
he thought he's a little bit render the
end quite a big round the bed there was
been done before
and how much did a father build a event
and the funny thing is is the people
have talked like that then they're the
first to acclaim that he was before the
Wright brothers just shows you their
attending a frightfully keen on up there
so many of them saw him - they were
right about paddocks somewhere gathering
potatoes and I was working about you - a
small country district like that there's
no telephones or anything like that but
one tells the other there's no doubt
that peers flew 150 yards it said but
the date is in dispute most of the
testimony is linked to happenings in the
white toy and tamuca districts at that
time
the failure of the potato crop the big
snow of nineteen hundred and three the
resignation of a local schoolteacher and
such folk memories unhappily all too
fallible but tears was the first person
to fly in the British Empire
if that term has any meaning anymore he
was among the very first to fly in the
world he may have been the very first of
all
although they were at the other end of
the world from the American and European
pioneers New Zealand's early aviators
showed courage and Bishop and their
determination to fly